ned: add page (#2787)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/ned.md

# ned

> > Is like grep, but with powerful replace capabilities, and unlike sed, as it isn't restricted to line oriented editing.

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?

```suggestion
> Like `grep` but with powerful replace capabilities.
> Unlike `sed`, as it isn't restricted to line oriented editing.
```

Author: Done.

- Recursively search starting in the current directory, ignoring case:

> `ned -iR '^[dl]og' .`

Reviewer: Can the user change `^[dl]og`? If so, could we wrap it in `{{` and `}}` like this please? Same with `.` for the current directory.

```suggestion
`ned -iR '{{^[dl]og}}' {{.}}`
```

This is because `{{` and `}}` is our custom markdown extension that indicates that the user can change something - and is handled specially by clients.

Author: Done.

- Search always showing colored output:

> `ned -c '^[dl]og' .`

Reviewer: Same here.

Also, is there a long from of the `-c` option? We always prefer the longer options over shorter ones, as tey are more descriptive for new users.

Author: Done.

> - Search never showing colored output:

Reviewer: Same here about the `{{` and `}}`.

Author: Done.

`ned --colors=never '^[dl]og' .`

> - Set default arguments in your terminal environment:

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to include this example, as it's not directly related to `ned` itself (it's showing other functionality of the terminal that's documented in other pages).

What do you think, @agnivade / @pxgamer?

Reviewer 2: Agree.

Author: Are you referring to the subsequent line? The NED_DEFAULTS environment variable is a feature of `ned` itself.

`export NED_DEFAULTS='-i --colors=always'`

Reviewer 3: I don't know if this example is really needed or helpful, afaik the aim of tldr pages is not to provide a complete and detailed documentation of a command, but only the most important parts in a concise yet understandable manner (think of what's needed for a new user in order to use this command). This example looks to me more like a configuration thing that could be explained in a `man` page.

PS: I'm not a contributor (although I'm looking forward to providing some help in the future), I'm just sharing my opinion ;)

Author: Fair enough. Cheers!

Author: Done.

Reviewer: You've got it, @mttbernardini!

`export NED_DEFAULTS='-i --colors=always'`

- Search ignoring certain files:

> `ned -R --exclude '*.htm' '^[dl]og' .`

Reviewer: Same here with the `{{` and `}}`.

Author: Done.

- Replace using numbered group references:

> `ned 'the ([a-z]+) dog and the ([a-z]+) dog' -r 'the $2 dog and the $1 dog' .`

Reviewer: Is there a long form of the `-r` option? Also `{{` and `}}`.

Author: Done.

- Replace changing case:

> `ned ' ([a-z]+) dog' --case-replacements -r '\U$1\E! dog' --stdout .`

Reviewer: Same here with the `{{` and `}}`.

Author: Done.

> - Replace and see the results in the terminal without updating the target files:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?

```suggestion
- Preview results of a find and replace without updating the target files:
```

Also, `{{` and `}}` on the next line down.

Author: Done.

# ned

> Is like `grep` but with powerful replace capabilities.
> Unlike `sed`, as it isn't restricted to line oriented editing.

- Recursively search starting in the current directory, ignoring case:

`ned -iR '{{^[dl]og}}' {{.}}`

- Search always showing colored output:

`ned --colors '{{^[dl]og}}' {{.}}`

- Search never showing colored output:

`ned --colors=never '{{^[dl]og}}' {{.}}`

- Search ignoring certain files:

> `ned -R --exclude '{{*.htm}}' '{{^[dl]og}}' {{.}}`

Reviewer: Oops! I think I missed one. Is there a long form of `-R`?

Author: Dammit, I missed it to! Done.

Reviewer: Thanks!

- Simple replace:

`ned '{{dog}}' --replace '{{cat}}' {{.}}`

- Replace using numbered group references:

`ned '{{the ([a-z]+) dog and the ([a-z]+) dog}}' --replace '{{the $2 dog and the $1 dog}}' {{.}}`

- Replace changing case:

> `ned '{{([a-z]+) dog}}' --case-replacements -r '{{\U$1\E! dog}}' --stdout {{.}}`

Reviewer: Same here with `-r`.

Author: Done.

- Preview results of a find and replace without updating the target files:

> `ned '{{^[sb]ad}}' -r '{{happy}}' --stdout {{.}}`

Reviewer: Same here with `-r`.

Author: Done.
